Azure Hosting Recommendation Improvements (#12629)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/modern-web-apps-azure-architecture/azure-hosting-recommendations-for-asp-net-web-apps.md

> > "Line-of-business leaders everywhere are bypassing IT departments to get applications from the cloud (aka SaaS) and paying for them like they would a magazine subscription. And when the service is no longer required, they can cancel the subscription with no equipment left unused in the corner."  

Reviewer: should probably update ms.date on this article as well (metadata on top)

> > "Line-of-business leaders everywhere are bypassing IT departments to get applications from the cloud (aka SaaS) and paying for them like they would a magazine subscription. And when the service is no longer required, they can cancel the subscription with no equipment left unused in the corner."  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> "Line-of-business leaders everywhere are bypassing IT departments to get applications from the cloud (also known as SaaS) and paying for them like they would a magazine subscription. And when the service is no longer required, they can cancel the subscription with no equipment left unused in the corner."  
```

> _\- Daryl Plummer, Gartner analyst_

> Whatever your application's needs and architecture, Windows Azure can support it. Your hosting needs can be as simple as a static website or a sophisticated application made up of dozens of services. For ASP.NET Core monolithic web applications and supporting services, there are several well-known configurations that are recommended. The recommendations on this article are grouped based on the kind of resource to be hosted, whether full applications, individual processes, or data.

Reviewer 2: Rename "Windows Azure" to Microsoft Azure.

## Web applications

Web applications can be hosted with:

- App Service Web Apps

- Containers (several options)

- Virtual Machines (VMs)

Of these, App Service Web Apps is the recommended approach for most scenarios, including simple container-based apps. For microservice architectures, consider a container-based approach. If you need more control over the machines running your application, consider Azure Virtual Machines.

### App Service Web Apps

> App Service Web Apps offers a fully-managed platform optimized for hosting web applications. It's a platform as a service (PaaS) offering that lets you focus on your business logic, while Azure takes care of the infrastructure needed to run and scale the app. Some key features of App Service Web Apps:

Reviewer: It was correct before. 

```suggestion
App Service Web Apps offers a fully managed platform optimized for hosting web applications. It's a platform as a service (PaaS) offering that lets you focus on your business logic, while Azure takes care of the infrastructure needed to run and scale the app. Some key features of App Service Web Apps:
```

- Visual Studio integration.

> Azure App Service is the best choice for most web apps. Deployment and management are integrated into the platform, sites can scale quickly to handle high traffic loads, and the built-in load balancing and traffic manager provide high availability. You can move existing sites to Azure App Service easily with an online migration tool, use an open-source app from the Web Application Gallery, or create a new site using the framework and tools of your choice. The WebJobs feature makes it easy to add background job processing to your App Service web app. If you have an existing ASP.NET application hosted on-premises using a local database, there is a clear path to migrate the app to an App Service Web App with an Azure SQL Database (or secure access to your on-premises database server, if preferred).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure App Service is the best choice for most web apps. Deployment and management are integrated into the platform, sites can scale quickly to handle high traffic loads, and the built-in load balancing and traffic manager provide high availability. You can move existing sites to Azure App Service easily with an online migration tool, use an open-source app from the Web Application Gallery, or create a new site using the framework and tools of your choice. The WebJobs feature makes it easy to add background job processing to your App Service web app. If you have an existing ASP.NET application hosted on-premises using a local database, there's a clear path to migrate the app to an App Service Web App with an Azure SQL Database (or secure access to your on-premises database server, if preferred).
```

![Recommended migration strategy for on-premises .NET apps to Azure App Service](./media/image1-6.png)

> In most cases, moving from a locally-hosted ASP.NET app to an App Service Web App is a straightforward process. Little or no modification should be required of the app itself, and it can quickly start to take advantage of the many features that Azure App Service Web Apps offer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, moving from a locally hosted ASP.NET app to an App Service Web App is a straightforward process. Little or no modification should be required of the app itself, and it can quickly start to take advantage of the many features that Azure App Service Web Apps offer.
```

> In addition to apps that are not optimized for the cloud, Azure App Service Web Apps are an excellent solution for many simple monolithic (non-distributed) applications, such as many ASP.NET Core apps. In this approach, the architecture is basic and simple to understand and manage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to apps that aren't optimized for the cloud, Azure App Service Web Apps are an excellent solution for many simple monolithic (non-distributed) applications, such as many ASP.NET Core apps. In this approach, the architecture is basic and simple to understand and manage:
```

![Basic Azure architecture](./media/image1-5.png)

> A small number of resources in a single resource group is typically sufficient to manage such an app. Apps that are typically deployed as a single unit, rather than those which are made up of many separate processes, are good candidates for this [basic architectural approach](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/app-service-web-app/basic-web-app). Though architecturally simple, this approach still allows the hosted app to scale both up (more resources per node) and out (more hosted nodes) to meet any increase in demand. With autoscale, the app can be configured to automatically adjust the number of nodes hosting the app based on demand and average load across nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A small number of resources in a single resource group is typically sufficient to manage such an app. Apps that are typically deployed as a single unit, rather than those apps that are made up of many separate processes, are good candidates for this [basic architectural approach](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/app-service-web-app/basic-web-app). Though architecturally simple, this approach still allows the hosted app to scale both up (more resources per node) and out (more hosted nodes) to meet any increase in demand. With autoscale, the app can be configured to automatically adjust the number of nodes hosting the app based on demand and average load across nodes.
```

### App Service Web Apps for Containers

In addition to support for hosting web apps directly, [App Service Web Apps for Containers](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/containers/) can be used to run containerized applications on Windows and Linux. Using this service, you can easily deploy and run containerized applications that can scale with your business. The apps have all of the features of App Service Web Apps listed above. In addition, Web Apps for Containers support streamlined CI/CD with Docker Hub, Azure Container Registry, and GitHub. You can use Azure DevOps to define build and deployment pipelines that publish changes to a registry. These changes can then be tested in a staging environment and automatically deployed to production using deployment slots, allowing zero-downtime upgrades. Rolling back to previous versions can be done just as easily.

> There are a few scenarios where Web Apps for Containers make the most sense. If you have existing apps that you're able to containerize, whether in Windows or Linux containers, you'll be able to host these easily using this toolset. Simply publish your container and then configure Web Apps for Containers to pull the latest version of that image from your registry of choice. This is a "lift and shift" approach to migrating from classic app hosting models to a cloud-optimized model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few scenarios where Web Apps for Containers make the most sense. If you have existing apps that you can containerize, whether in Windows or Linux containers, you can host these easily using this toolset. Simply publish your container and then configure Web Apps for Containers to pull the latest version of that image from your registry of choice. This is a "lift and shift" approach to migrating from classic app hosting models to a cloud-optimized model.
```

![Migrate containerized on-premises .NET application to Azure Web Apps for Containers](./media/image1-8.png)

This approach also works well if your development team is able to move to a container-based development process. The "inner loop" of developing apps with containers includes building the app with containers. Changes made to the code as well as to container configuration are pushed to source control, and an automated build is responsible for publishing new container images to a registry like Docker Hub or Azure Container Registry. These images are then used as the basis for additional development, as well as for deployments to production, as shown in the following diagram:

![End to End Docker DevOps Lifecycle Workflow](./media/image1-7.png)

> Developing with containers offers numerous advantages, especially when containers are used in production. The same container configuration is used to host the app in each environment in which it runs, from local dev machine to build and test systems to production. This greatly reduces the likelihood of defects resulting from differences in machine configuration or software versions. Developers can also use whatever tools they're most productive with, including operating system, since containers can run on any OS. In some cases, distributed applications involving many containers may be very resource-intensive to run on a single dev machine. In this scenario, it may make sense to upgrade to using Kubernetes and Azure Dev Spaces, covered in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developing with containers offers many advantages, especially when containers are used in production. The same container configuration is used to host the app in each environment in which it runs, from local development machine to build and test systems to production. This greatly reduces the likelihood of defects resulting from differences in machine configuration or software versions. Developers can also use whatever tools they're most productive with, including operating system, since containers can run on any OS. In some cases, distributed applications involving many containers may be very resource-intensive to run on a single development machine. In this scenario, it may make sense to upgrade to using Kubernetes and Azure Dev Spaces, covered in the next section.
```

> As portions of larger applications are broken up into their own smaller, independent *microservices*, additional design patterns can be used to improve app behavior. Instead of working directly with individual services, an *API gateway* can simplify access and decouple the client from its backend. Having separate service backends for different frontends also allows services to evolve in concert with their consumers. Common services can be accessed via a separate *sidecar* container, which might include common client connectivity libraries using the *ambassador* pattern.

Reviewer: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/f/front-end
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/b/back-end

```suggestion
As portions of larger applications are broken up into their own smaller, independent *microservices*, additional design patterns can be used to improve app behavior. Instead of working directly with individual services, an *API gateway* can simplify access and decouple the client from its back end. Having separate service back ends for different front ends also allows services to evolve in concert with their consumers. Common services can be accessed via a separate *sidecar* container, which might include common client connectivity libraries using the *ambassador* pattern.
```

As portions of larger applications are broken up into their own smaller, independent *microservices*, additional design patterns can be used to improve app behavior. Instead of working directly with individual services, an *API gateway* can simplify access and decouple the client from its backend. Having separate service backends for different frontends also allows services to evolve in concert with their consumers. Common services can be accessed via a separate *sidecar* container, which might include common client connectivity libraries using the *ambassador* pattern.

![Microservices sample architecture with several common design patterns noted.](./media/image1-10.png)

[Learn more about design patterns to consider when building microservice-based systems.](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/microservices/design/patterns)

With Azure handling the management of the nodes in your AKS cluster, you no longer need to perform many tasks manually, like cluster upgrades. Because Azure handles these critical maintenance tasks for you, AKS doesn't provide direct access (such as with SSH) to the cluster.

> #### Web App for Containers

Reviewer 2: AKS section gone? I guess this is due to the merge from the master that had your previous changes. The title isn't correct - Web App for containers is already covered above. What we need here is the AKS and the section of Dev Spaces below.

Author: Ok that was a rather overzealous auto-merge. Fixed.

In addition to apps that are not optimized for the cloud, Azure App Service Web Apps are an excellent solution for many simple monolithic (non-distributed) applications, such as many ASP.NET Core apps. In this approach, the architecture is basic and simple to understand and manage:

![Basic Azure architecture](./media/image1-5.png)

A small number of resources in a single resource group is typically sufficient to manage such an app. Apps that are typically deployed as a single unit, rather than those which are made up of many separate processes, are good candidates for this [basic architectural approach](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/app-service-web-app/basic-web-app). Though architecturally simple, this approach still allows the hosted app to scale both up (more resources per node) and out (more hosted nodes) to meet any increase in demand. With autoscale, the app can be configured to automatically adjust the number of nodes hosting the app based on demand and average load across nodes.

### App Service Web Apps for Containers

> In addition to support for hosting web apps directly, [App Service Web Apps for Containers](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/containers/) can be used to run containerized applications on Windows and Linux. Using this product, you can easily deploy and run containerized applications that can scale with your business. The apps have all of the features of App Service Web Apps listed above. In addition, Web Apps for Containers support streamlined CI/CD with Docker Hub, Azure Container Registry, and GitHub. You can use Azure DevOps to define build and deployment pipelines that publish changes to a registry. These changes can then be tested in a staging environment and automatically deployed to production using deployment slots, allowing zero-downtime upgrades. Rolling back to previous versions can be done just as easily.

Reviewer 2: Probably, Using this _service_ is better than using this _product_?

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) manages your hosted Kubernetes environment, making it quick and easy to deploy and manage containerized applications without container orchestration expertise. It also eliminates the burden of ongoing operations and maintenance by provisioning, upgrading, and scaling resources on demand, without taking your applications offline.

AKS reduces the complexity and operational overhead of managing a Kubernetes cluster by offloading much of that responsibility to Azure. As a hosted Kubernetes service, Azure handles critical tasks like health monitoring and maintenance for you. Also, you pay only for the agent nodes within your clusters, not for the masters. As a managed Kubernetes service, AKS provides:

- Automated Kubernetes version upgrades and patching.
- Easy cluster scaling.
- Self-healing hosted control plane (masters).
- Cost savings - pay only for running agent pool nodes.

With Azure handling the management of the nodes in your AKS cluster, you no longer need to perform many tasks manually, like cluster upgrades. Because Azure handles these critical maintenance tasks for you, AKS doesn't provide direct access (such as with SSH) to the cluster.

> #### Web App for Containers

Reviewer 2: This section **Web App For Containers** and the following paragraph should be dropped.
> Web App for Containers from Azure App Service lets you bring your own Docker formatted container images and easily deploy and run them at scale with Azure. Web App for Containers supports both Linux and Windows containers and can scale to support large scale implementations. 

This is already covered in the section **App Service Web Apps for Containers**

- Visual Studio integration.

Azure App Service is the best choice for most web apps. Deployment and management are integrated into the platform, sites can scale quickly to handle high traffic loads, and the built-in load balancing and traffic manager provide high availability. You can move existing sites to Azure App Service easily with an online migration tool, use an open-source app from the Web Application Gallery, or create a new site using the framework and tools of your choice. The WebJobs feature makes it easy to add background job processing to your App Service web app. If you have an existing ASP.NET application hosted on-premises using a local database, there is a clear path to migrate the app to an App Service Web App with an Azure SQL Database (or secure access to your on-premises database server, if preferred).

> ![](./media/image1-6.png)

Reviewer 2: For SEO reasons, it is recommended to use descriptive images. For e.g., Change to `![Recommended Migration strategy for on-prem .NET apps to Azure App Service](./media/image1-6.png)`

And, the `image1-6` has a mention of "VSTS" under CI/CD - rename this to Azure DevOps.

Author: Ok - I pulled that image tag from an existing one in the docs but I'll run through and add alt text to all of them.

Author: Image updated.

In most cases, moving from a locally-hosted ASP.NET app to an App Service Web App is a straightforward process. Little or no modification should be required of the app itself, and it can quickly start to take advantage of the many features that Azure App Service Web Apps offer.

In addition to apps that are not optimized for the cloud, Azure App Service Web Apps are an excellent solution for many simple monolithic (non-distributed) applications, such as many ASP.NET Core apps. In this approach, the architecture is basic and simple to understand and manage:

> ![](./media/image1-5.png)

Reviewer 2: Descriptive "alt" text required in the image for SEO.

There are a few scenarios where Web Apps for Containers make the most sense. If you have existing apps that you're able to containerize, whether in Windows or Linux containers, you'll be able to host these easily using this toolset. Simply publish your container and then configure Web Apps for Containers to pull the latest version of that image from your registry of choice. This is a "lift and shift" approach to migrating from classic app hosting models to a cloud-optimized model.

> ![](./media/image1-8.png)

Reviewer 2: Descriptive "alt" text required in the image for SEO.
Rename "VSTS" to "Azure DevOps" in the diagram.

This approach also works well if your development team is able to move to a container-based development process. The "inner loop" of developing apps with containers includes building the app with containers. Changes made to the code as well as to container configuration are pushed to source control, and an automated build is responsible for publishing new container images to a registry like Docker Hub or Azure Container Registry. These images are then used as the basis for additional development, as well as for deployments to production, as shown in the following diagram:

> ![](./media/image1-7.png)

Reviewer 2: Descriptive "alt" text required in the image for SEO.

Developing with containers offers numerous advantages, especially when containers are used in production. The same container configuration is used to host the app in each environment in which it runs, from local dev machine to build and test systems to production. This greatly reduces the likelihood of defects resulting from differences in machine configuration or software versions. Developers can also use whatever tools they're most productive with, including operating system, since containers can run on any OS. In some cases, distributed applications involving many containers may be very resource intensive to run on a single dev machine. In this scenario, developers can use Azure Dev Spaces to rapidly build container-based apps composed of many different containers in the cloud.

> Azure Dev Spaces helps teams to focus on the development and rapid iteration of their microservice application by allowing teams to work directly with their entire microservices architecture or application running in AKS. Azure Dev Spaces also provides a way to independently update portions of your microservices architecture in isolation without affecting the rest of the AKS cluster or other developers.

Reviewer 2: Azure Dev Spaces is an AKS only feature. We shouldn't be writing this here in "App service web apps for containers". IMO, It's best to move it to the AKS section and keep it really brief. For Web Apps, we shouldn't be recommending AKS or Dev Spaces but a brief mention is OK. AKS is covered in-depth in Microservices guidance.

Author: Moved to AKS section.

> ![](./media/image1-9.gif)

Reviewer 2: Descriptive "alt" text required in the image for SEO.

Azure Dev Spaces:

- Minimize local machine setup time and resource requirements
- Allow teams to iterate more rapidly
- Reduce number of integration environments required by team
- Remove need to mock certain services in distributed system when developing/testing

[Learn more about Azure Dev Spaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dev-spaces/about)

As portions of larger applications are broken up into their own smaller, independent *microservices*, additional design patterns can be used to improve app behavior. Instead of working directly with individual services, an *API gateway* can simplify access and decouple the client from its backend. Having separate service backends for different frontends also allows services to evolve in concert with their consumers. Common services can be accessed via a separate *sidecar* container, which might include common client connectivity libraries using the *ambassador* pattern.

> ![](./media/image1-10.png)

Reviewer 2: Descriptive "alt" text required in the image for SEO.
